### LITA CLASS DATA ANALYSIS PROJECT: SALESANALYSIS
---

## Context

[Project Overview](#project-overview)

[Data Sources](#data-sources)

[Tools Used](#tools-used)

[Data Cleaning and Preparations](#data-cleaning-and-preparations)

[Exploratory Data Analysis](#exploratory-data-analysis)

[Data Analysis](#data-analysis)

[Data Visualization](#data-visualization)

### Project Overview
---
This project analyses sales data from various regions, markets, and stores. The aim of this project is to provide insights into revenue, units sold, and transaction categories over different periods. The analysis focuses on understanding revenue trends and sales performance across regions and calculating key metrics such as average revenue by region.

### Data Sources
---
The dataset was sourced from the Sales Records of Federal Capital Territory. The dataset includes information about the following:
- Region
- Market
- Store
- Trade Date
- Fiscal Period Model
- Line of Business
- Day Category
- Revenue
- Unit Sold
- Transaction Category
  

### Tools Used
---
- Microsoft Excel [Download Here](https://wwww.microsoft.com)
  1. For Data Cleaning
  2. For Analysis
  3. For Visualization- Pivot tables, PieChart and Cloumn chart were used to visually represent key insights
### Data Cleaning and Preparations
---
In the initial phase of the Data Cleaning and preparations,the following actions were performed;
1. Data loading and Inspection
2. Handling missing variables
3. Data Cleaning and formating

### Exploratory Data Analysis
---
EDA invoved the exploring of Data to answer some questions about the Data which are as follows;
- Calculate the transaction category
- Calculate the total revenue generated by each region
- Calculate the revenue generated by each Model
- Identify the Top 5 Markets by Revenue
- Identify the Bottom 5 Markets by Unit Sold
- Calculate the average revenue generated by each region
- Calculate the percentage of the revenue generated by each line of business.

### Data Analysis
---
## Formulars Used
## Excel Functions
## IF Function
- **Transaction Category**:
  `IF(J2<=20,"Low", IF(J2<=50,"Medium","High"))` - Finds all the transaction category for each sales if they fall into the low, medium or high category.


### Data Visualization
---
## Total Revenue by Region

### 1. Inferences
- Overall, the revenue generated in 2014 was more than the revenue generated in 2015. The drop in sales may be due to increased competition in the market for all regions. 
- **Sales Performance by each region in each year**;
  * North East: The North East region had the highest revenue in both 2014 and 2015 but there was a huge drop in sales in 2015. The drop in sales may be due to increased competition in the market.
  * South West: This region generated the 2nd highest revenue in 2014 and 2015 but Shows a huge decrease in revenue in 2015. The decline in sales may indicate a rising competitor in the market andthe prices of the products were seen to be high.
 * South South, South East and North West: There was a slight decrease of revenue generated in 2015 in all three regions indicating a potential area of concern due to price strategies implemented.
 * North Central: Had the least generated revenue in both years

### 2. Strategic Recommendation
The decline in revenue across all regions indicates a need for a strategic plan and implementation. The company should consider investigating the causes of the decline, such as changes in consumer behavior, economic factors, or competitive pressures as well as benchmarking with market prices.
  
### 3. Conclusion
Regional sales highlights opportunities for growth in underperformimg regions and importance of maintaing strong strategies in high-performing regions. By researching on the factors affecting the sales and addressing the issues causing the decline iin sales will help in improving the sales performance in all regions.

## Total Revenue by Region

### 1. Inferences
- Overall, the revenue generated in 2014 was more than the revenue generated in 2015. The drop in sales may be due to increased competition in the market for all regions. 
- **Sales Performance by each region in each year**;
  * North East: The North East region had the highest revenue in both 2014 and 2015 but there was a huge drop in sales in 2015. The drop in sales may be due to increased competition in the market.
  * South West: This region generated the 2nd highest revenue in 2014 and 2015 but Shows a huge decrease in revenue in 2015. The decline in sales may indicate a rising competitor in the market andthe prices of the products were seen to be high.
 * South South, South East and North West: There was a slight decrease of revenue generated in 2015 in all three regions indicating a potential area of concern due to price strategies implemented.
 * North Central: Had the least generated revenue in both years

### 2. Strategic Recommendation
The decline in revenue across all regions indicates a need for a strategic plan and implementation. The company should consider investigating the causes of the decline, such as changes in consumer behavior, economic factors, or competitive pressures as well as benchmarking with market prices.
  
### 3. Conclusion
Regional sales highlights opportunities for growth in underperformimg regions and importance of maintaing strong strategies in high-performing regions. By researching on the factors affecting the sales and addressing the issues causing the decline iin sales will help in improving the sales performance in all regions.
